Feat: telemetry section (#11)
shuttle-hq/shuttle-docs: introduction/telemetry.mdx

---
title: "Telemetry"
description: "Using `tracing` or `log` with shuttle apps."
---

## Tracing

When you build an app with the `#[shuttle_service::main]` macro, a global subscriber will be created and installed
[behind the scenes](https://github.com/shuttle-hq/shuttle/blob/001dbcfcf47066713598f00a98f4972de450ff3b/codegen/src/main/mod.rs#L237-L245).
This means if you can skip this step when implementing [tracing](https://docs.rs/tracing/latest/tracing/) in your application, 

> all you have to do is add `tracing` as a dependency in your `Cargo.toml`, and you're good to go!

Reviewer: It might be usefull to include a minimal example of one log / tracing call

Author: Yeah, that's a good idea. Thanks!

## Log

If you'd rather use [log](https://docs.rs/log/latest/log/), everything from the above section on tracing applies.
A log-compatible layer is added to the global subscriber, so like with tracing, all you need to do to use `log` macros
in your project is add it to your `Cargo.toml`.

## Setting Log Level

The global subscriber has an `env_filter` which defaults to the `DEBUG` log level. You can change the log level for local runs

> with `RUST_LOG="<crate-name>"=trace cargo shuttle run`, but we do not currently allow changing the log level for production deployments.

Author: ```suggestion
with `RUST_LOG="<crate-name>=trace" cargo shuttle run`, but we do not currently allow changing the log level for production deployments.
```

> The global subscriber has an `env_filter` which defaults to the `DEBUG` log level. You can change the log level for local runs
> with `RUST_LOG="<crate-name>=trace" cargo shuttle run`, but we do not currently allow changing the log level for production deployments.

Author: ```suggestion
The global subscriber has an `env_filter` which defaults to the `INFO` log level if no `RUST_LOG` variable is set. You can change the log level for local runs
with `RUST_LOG="<crate-name>=trace" cargo shuttle run`. We do not currently allow changing the log level for production deployments, and it will be set to `DEBUG` by default.
```
